I'm trying to think if there's any
major things that we need to do here.
Or I think the last two things for
the OS integration piece of this would
be to get these two buttons working.
Like I've said, reverting would just be
asking for the last saved content and
changing the DOM back.
So I'll kinda leave that for
you all as well.
But I think getting these two kinda show
two more I think important pieces that you
might use in your application
rather than just more of the same.
So why don't I do one of these, and
then I'm gonna have you all
do the other one, right?
And so there's this library, which we
can argue and Electron maybe doesn't
have the best name in the world, Called
shell, right, cuz I guess, whatever.
If we go look at the shell library,
there's not a lot in here, but
there's showItemInFolder,
openPath, openExternal.
You can actually legit trash
an item in the file system, right?
So if I wanted to hit a Delete button,
we could literally.
And it will handle all the parts
of moving it into the trash,
operating system agnostic, right?
So yes, you do need to think about
the UX of the peculiarities of your OS.
But in terms of the specifics of
Linux versus Windows versus Mac OS,
you don't have to think about any of that.
You just call it based on
that kinda given behavior.
So the ones that we care a lot about
are openPath, which we'll go ahead and
seek to open it in the desktop
operating system's default manner.
So for a markdown file,
that is gonna be whatever you
normally open markdown files in.
The other one that is super
useful is showItemInFolder.
If we go into VS Code, for instance,
I right-click this,
you'll see Reveal in Finder.
Guess what method that's using.
It's using the one that
we have seen previously.
So I'll do Reveal in Finder and
you get to do open in default application,
cool.
So I will say ipc,
icp is something very different.
We'll say show in file system,
show-in-folder, I like it.
And honestly, I know the current file.
I don't really need anything else
from that event to be clear.
I can say if,
I don't wanna do the get currentFile cuz
that's going to ask me for
the shows dialog if it's not there.
So we'll just say,
if currentFile.filePath.
And then we gotta pull in
the shell module from Electron.
Beyond that, we're just gonna
say open the current file.
I don't know what happens if
you give it an empty string.
We can find that out
together in a little bit.
But yeah, it will basically go ahead and
proceed to show you where
that is in the file system.
So all we need to do at
this point is then, again,
do the dance of making it available,
right?
So we can do show,
what did I call it in my main process?
I called it show-in-folder?
All right, let's call that here as well.
ShowInFolder, and
that really doesn't need anything other
than to do ipcRenderer.send
show-in-folder, right?
And like I said, if you get tired of this,
there are some ways to optimize this.
You could, for instance, keep an array
of the methods that you allow.
And that way, you can only send
stuff over those channels that will,
again, allow lists and give you
a certain amount of the security for
a little bit more convenience.
The reason that I'm not choosing to do
that is because I am using TypeScript.
And I would like the type checking for
the correct thing that each one,
if it takes an HTML string, that's
different than just having an allow list.
I will show you a way to get around
putting it in the type every time probably
right after this cuz I'm getting
really tired of doing this.
But to kind of just make the point real
quick, we'll just showInFolder, and
that doesn't really take anything,
so it's pretty easy to add.
There's an argument about why you
would also choose to do this manually,
which is there's something
about your own sanity.
It's tedious, but
then you have to manually do it, right?
But I'll show you how to get around it if
you wanna get around it as well, awesome.
And like we said before,
that one's exposed there.
So we can actually now just go
back into our renderer process and
do Elements.ShowFileButton.
And we'll just call it
window.api.showInFolder,
and I do need to restart the process.
I'm yelled at for something, but
it looks like I fixed that since then.
Cool, and so now,
I probably need to enable that button.
We'll do it in the DOM for a second.
So go ahead and
I think when I open a file,
I probably need to also then
choose to on the file opened.
But for the meantime,
we'll cheat for a second.
And go ahead and
I should be able to click that.
I opened that one in the default editor,
so I did the opposite one.
Let's see, I did openPath.
I meant to do showItemInFolder, but
I gave you the answer for the exercise.
So showItemInFolder versus openPath,
we'll open it in the default one.
It's what happens when you're talking and
typing simultaneously,
so showInFolder, at least get the right,
Have a little bit of self respect,
you know what I mean?
And then let's actually go ahead and say
while we're at it in the preload script.
Cuz now we have that onFileOpen, so we'll
actually do this now in the renderer.
So onFileOpen, we should be able
to say Elements.ShowFileButton
disabled is now false
cuz we've opened one.
And so now, it should be able to
see that we can, Upon opening it,
it's now enabled and
then we see it in the file system.
So we get that OS
integration there as well.
So kinda gave you the answer, but
just for practice for a second,
why don't you spend three minutes just
getting now the opposite one in place?
The open and default application,
which is openPath, and
we'll kinda just do it
together real quick.
And then, well, I think for the most part,
wrap up this little application for
a little bit.
All right, [COUGH] so
now we've got one of the buttons working.
We're just trying to get
the other one working.
Luckily, it is a very similar
pattern in both cases.
So we'll start with over in here,
we'll just say,
ipcMain, and
then we're gonna do open-in-default,
default-application.
And that is again one little guard clause,
not entirely sure what happens
if you pass it an empty string.
But we've got it in place, so
we'll do the openPath, and
that should get us most of the way there.
ShowInDefaultApplication, and
that doesn't really involve anything.
And now we should be able to say,
We'll open in the default,
OpenInDefaultApplication,
we'll listen for that, and
we'll also send that same message, right?
And then the main process gets it.
Everything works out great.
We'll do the same.
I might do at some point,
probably not right now,
is cuz when we save a file, there's
also the fact that we now have a file.
So I might just send a message being,
hey, we currently have a file now,
right, which will then
activate all of these buttons.
But for now,
we'll just do it here cuz I think it gets
the point across as we go through.
And real quickly,
all we should need to do at that point
was kinda get into the flow of it.
That one, so we should be able to file.
Now I can open that up,
showInDefaultApplication is
not a function.
Did I not put it on there or
did I misspell it?
I just added the type, I didn't actually,
the error message is legit.
Cool.
All right, now open a file.
Almost, let's see,
we've got showInDefaultApplication,
it says show-in-default-application.
Did I open-in-default-application?
One of these things is not like the other.
I think open-in-default-application is
the better one, so I'm gonna go with that.
We'll keep that the same, though.
Actually, I'll make it consistent,
we're worth it.
The glory of TypeScript helping me.
As long as I get the red squiggly
lines to vanish, we should be good.
All right, openInDefaultApplication then
calls that openInDefaultApplication,
openInDefaultApplication,
open-in-default-application.
The security dance is fun, but arguably,
the downside of losing the security dance,
also fun.
Open file.
And now we can open in
the default application.
And again,
we're kind of becoming a nice player.
I would argue I was
about to make the joke.
Look, we're playing nice with all
the other native applications as I
in one Electron app hit
openInDefaultApplication,
which caused it to open up in
another Electron app on my computer.
But I guess that's the value
of the course, right?